- [Instructor] For this video, please have project
source code 02_02_begin opened in IntelliJ.
Switching over to our browser
we'll also be downloading the latest version
of Apache Tomcat version nine
from tomcat.apache.org download-90.cgi as you can see here.
9.0.55 is the latest as of this video.
Scrolling down slightly and under the binary distribution,
then Core and zip.
We're going to click on this file to begin download.
Once the zip file is downloaded
you can copy the zip file over to your home directory.
I'm going to do this through the terminal window on my Mac.
If you're using windows, you could do this
with File Explorer as well.
From the terminal, first I'm going to create a new directory
called tomcat, and this will be in my home directory.
From there I'm going to copy from my downloads folder
the Apache Tomcat to my Tomcat directory I just created.
And from there, I'm going to cd into that Tomcat folder.
Now, the next step is to unzip
the Apache Tomcat 9.0.55 zip file.
And when that's done, we're going to cd
into the Apache Tomcat 9055 folder.
And for the sake of time, we're going to type
change mod plus X, bin/*.*
which will make all of the .sh files executable.
To ensure spring boot environment profile is picked up
when the application is started,
we're going to modify the catalina properties.
To do this we'll type vi conf
for the folder, catalina properties.
We're going to scroll all the way to the end.
I'm going to type i for insert.
Go to the end of this line.
Hit enter a couple times, enter a hashtag
for a comment and call this spring boot profile.
Then we're going to type spring.profiles.active=prod.
This probably looks familiar to you by now.
We'll type escape, colon W quit.
With that done, let's go ahead
and start up our Tomcat server by typing bin startup.sh.
Now for this tutorial, we're not going to do
any advanced Tomcat configurations
other than starting it up so that we can demonstrate
how to deploy our spring boot application.
Okay, with it started, let's go back to our Chrome tab.
Open a new tab, and we're going to type localhost 8080.
We've packaged our application repeatedly as a JAR file,
which is spring boot's default methodology.
Remember, as Josh Long points out,
the uber JAR methodology is really the better solution
than deploying a WAR to a Tomcat web server.
However, if you still need to do so, it's quite simple.
Let's go back to our IntelliJ IDE.
We're going to open the build.gradle.
Go to the top, locate the id single quotes java.
We're going to type id single quote war,
go below the curly bracket, hit enter.
Then we're going to type bootWar camel case curly brackets.
Inside of this camel brackets
we're going to specify the archive file name.
So we'll type archiveFileName,
notice again the camel case,
single quotes, springBootProdApplication.war.
We also need to tell gradle
to make the implicit Tomcat dependency
to be that of provided instead of implemented.
So we're going to go down below our implementations.
We're going to type providedRuntime, single quote,
org springframework.boot:spring-boot-starter-tomcat.
This will tell the application to use
the Tomcat instance instead of the one provided.
Now lastly, we need to go
to our spring boot prod application,
and we need to have it extend
the spring boot servlet initializer.
This is necessary for creating WAR files.
Adding this will automatically add our import.
Below the public static void main method
we're going to add an overrides method.
And this will be protected
a spring application builder.
The name of the method is configure
and this will accept a spring application builder.
We'll call it builder for short,
curly brackets, there we go.
Now we need to type return builder.sources
and we're going to give it the name of the class we're in,
which is the SpringBootProdApplication.class.
Don't forget your semicolon. Click save.
And finally, we need to make a few modifications
to our application properties.
We'll go to the top.
We're going to add a server.servlet.contextPath
equals SpringBootProdApplication.
This will be the context we type in after the colon 8080.
Now we also need to add one other attribute
and this is for our actuator endpoints.
We'll type management.endpoints.web.base/path.
And here we're going to change the actuator context to manage.
And the last things we need to do are ensure
that our server.port is commented out
and our management server port is commented out.
And I've already done these here.
Okay, with all of this done let's go ahead.
Check my spelling again.
Here we go, manage.
Go ahead and clean and build the application.
Once this is complete, we're going to copy
from the build libs directory
and send it to our Tomcat web apps directory.
And I'm going to do this right here
inside this terminal window, so I'll type
copy build/libs, I'll tab over
for the spring boot prod application name and then type war.
And now we're going to specify our Tomcat installation.
And using tab is our friend.
Webapps, hit enter.
That will copy it over.
Tomcat is already running, so let's go ahead and tail logs.
We'll use tail -f, tilde, tomcat, apache-tomcat.
Go to the logs and we'll type catalina.out.
I'm going to span this terminal window just a little bit
so we can see what's going on.
Okay, everything is started up.
Let's go back to our browser.
Going to append to the end of this
Spring Boot Prod Application.
And to test our actuator endpoints
we'll type in manage, which is the new context
for the actuators, hit enter.
And we have our actuator endpoints.
Let's go ahead and shut down the instance.
We'll go back to Tomcat in our terminal window.
I'm going to type bin, shutdown.sh.
And with that shutdown we're going to go back
to our IntelliJ terminal,
do Ctrl C to stop the tailing of logs.
And what I want to show you is that alternatively you can
also run the spring boot WAR just like a JAR.
So we'll type java -jar -Dspring profiles
active equals prod build libs,
tab over and type dot war, hit enter.
We can see we're exposing the four endpoints.
We can see it started on 8080, and if we go back
to our browser, click refresh,
we're still seeing our endpoints.
We take that off
and there's our webpage.